# SSI Collaborations Workshop

## Useful links
- Key details
    - Main conference: Tuesday 31st March + Wednesday 1st April
    - Hackday: Thursday 2nd April
    - Venue: [Peter Froggatt Centre at Queen's University Belfast](https://goo.gl/maps/fTBtXGszESSnzxj79)
- [Agenda](https://software.ac.uk/cw20/agenda)
- [Mini-workshop + demo application](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSftRmSMgiH4hczenfybfGsfbAYvwUOFzdWWaM8CSUuUke_7Eg/viewform)
- Application deadline: **Friday 31st January at 12pm**

## Mini-workshop/demo application
_The italic sections below are copied from the Google form linked above._

### People (session collaborators)
_**Note from LB:** We've put the Turing REG members down for now as we interpreted this section as "people who will lead the workshop", but will happily extend the list if more people from the team want to come, or if this section is intended as a list of collaborators rather than presenters._

- Louise Bowler (contact point for this application)
- Kasra Hosseini
- Greg Mingas
- Martin O'Reilly
- Camila Rangel Smith
- Oliver Strickson

### Session title
Generating synthetic datasets using the QUiPP pipeline

### Abstract
_We may publish this on the CW20 website for successfully accepted sessions, so please write this as a public description containing 200-400 words._

The proliferation of individual-level data sets has opened up new research opportunities; however, this individual information is tightly restricted, for example, in health and census records. This creates difficulties in working openly and reproducibly, since full analyses cannot then be shared. Methods exist for creating synthetic populations that are representative of the existing relationships and attributes in the original data. However, understanding the utility of the synthetic data and simultaneously protecting individuals' privacy, such that these data can be released more openly, is challenging.

The QUiPP (Quantifying Utility and Preserving Privacy in synthetic datasets) project aims to produce a framework to facilitate the creation of synthetic population data where the privacy of individuals is quantified. In addition, QUiPP can assess utility in a variety of contexts. Does a model trained on the synthetic data generalize as well to the population as the same model trained on the confidential sample, for example?

In this mini-workshop, we will introduce synthetic record generation. We will illustrate the problems of assessing the privacy impact to individuals contained in the original dataset, and of measuring the utility of the synthetic data. We will demonstrate QUiPP as applied to several example datasets, and show how it can be used to assess the privacy impact and utility of synthetic data generation based on these examples. The session will conclude with an open discussion around participants' confidential data and data-sharing needs.

### Theme
_Select all that apply_
- [x] Open research
- [x] Data privacy
- [ ] Software sustainability
- [ ] Other (specify)

### Sessions
_You can see the available mini-workshop and demo session slots on the agenda: https://www.software.ac.uk/cw20/agenda. If you request more than one session, we may end up awarding you less time depending on the volume of proposals. Please clarify your session/time requirements in your response to Question 9 below (for example: if you only need a single 40 minute session but do not have a preference between Session 2 OR 3, or if you need both Sessions 2 AND 3)._
- [x] Session 1 (Day 1): 55 minutes
- [ ] Session 2 (Day 2): 40 minutes
- [ ] Session 3 (Day 2): 40 minutes

### Description
_Please describe the aims and outcomes of the proposed mini-workshop or demo session. How does your session connect to the themes of CW20? How much time do you need for the proposed session and why?_

Aims and outcomes: Participants will be introduced to the three main stages in the synthetic data pipeline: how to generate a synthetic tabular dataset, how to assess the privacy of the generated records and how to evaluate the utility of the synthetic dataset (How useful is it for the research question being asked?). They will work with an openly developed tool, the QUiPP framework, which they will be able to apply to their own datasets after the workshop. In the discussion session, we will explore the challenges faced by participants when working with personal and private data, explore opportunities for collaboration, and find new use-cases to guide the development of the QUiPP project.

Connection to themes: This mini-workshop is strongly connected to both the Data Privacy and Open Research themes. The QUiPP project came about as a result of the challenges we face at the Alan Turing Institute when working with personal data - how can we share our work openly without compromising on the privacy of study participants? As well as facilitating Open Research, the QUiPP project is openly developed and we place a strong emphasis on sharing our work continuously. The QUiPP repository can be found on GitHub: https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/QUIPP-pipeline

Time: We would prefer a 55-minute session so that we can offer a substantial group discussion before we wrap up, but could shorten the discussion to fit into a 40-minute session if needed.

### Prerequisites etc.
_Any special requirements, prerequisites for participants or other information you would like to include about your proposed session?_

Familiarity with running scripts on the command line and using one of Python or R would be useful but not essential. There will be no installation requirements or required tools other than a web browser.
